# Rust On L4Re

This repository contains a patched version of the L4Re microkernel operating
system that includes support for Rust client and server applications. At its
heart, the [L4Rust libraries](src/l4/pkg/l4rust) enable a Rust developer to
efficiently develop Rust clients and servers running on top of a highly
configurable, secure and performant OS. Rust services and clients can
communicate without adaptation with C++ server and clients from L4Re.

Suggestions, criticism and everything else is welcome, contact me on IRC as
Moomoc in the Mozilla, Freenode or OFTC network.

L4Re Setup
----------

This is better explained in [RL4Re's README](README.l4re), but in short you need
(GNU) make, gcc, libgcc, bison and flex. Execute `make setup` and `make -j4`
afterwards. If compilation aborts with "failed to build l4linux", you
successfully build everything except l4linux which isn't required.

This L4Re snapshot needs to reside in a path without any spaces, thanks to Makes
inability to treat those appropriately. Enter the L4Re source tree root and type
`make ssetup` to choose the build target. Then type make, followed by half a
dozen tea breaks.

Now you need to configure the object directory for your build. Open a new file
called `obj/l4/amd64/conf/Makeconf.local` and specify the object directory; substitute
amd64 through the chosen architecture. Assuming you are
on `x86_64` (AKA amd64) and the source tree is below `/home/user/l4re`, the
content might look like this:

    OBJ_BASE=/home/USER/rustl4re/obj/l4/amd64

Rust Compilation
----------------

Rust doesn't ship binary versions of the cross-compiled `std` crate. There is
also a minor deficiency in passing linker arguments containing spaces, so you
need a slightly patched Rust compiler yourself. Grab the source from
<https://github.com/humenda/rust> and follow these steps:

-   Create a file `config.toml` in the repository root with this content:

    ````
    [llvm]
    optimize = true
    [build]
    build = "x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu"    # defaults to your host platform
    target = ["x86_64-unknown-l4re-uclibc"] # defaults to just the build triple
    docs = false
    [install]
    prefix = '/your/preferred/path'
    [rust]
    optimize = true
    use-jemalloc = false
    backtrace = false

    You should adjust both prefix and potentially the `build =`-line, if you
    don't use Linux on a `x86_64` machine.
-   For building Rust with std:

    $ python3 x.py --host=x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu --target=x86_64-unknown-l4re-uclibc


Then you can proceed to building the L4Re source tree, see the linked
instructions above or with hacking, see below.

Branch setup
------------

The branch `upstream` contains the original L4Re snapshot. The patches to the
build system BID are in `bid_changes` which is rebased on upstream if a new
version comes out. `master` is based on bid_changes and contains all the library
implementation of `l4rust` and a few sample applications, see `pkg/l4rust` and `pkg/oxisamples`. 

The branch `bench` contains some hackish benchmarking applications. These are
are not guaranteed to run in all environments, patches welcome.
